# SAS-Home-Equity-Loan-HMEQ-Approval-Analytical-Model-
The consumer credit department of a bank wants to automate the decision-making process for approval of home equity lines of credit. To do this, they will follow the recommendations of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act to create an empirically derived and statistically sound credit scoring model. The model will be based on data collected from recent applicants granted credit through the current process of loan underwriting. The model will be built from predictive modeling tools, but the created model must be sufficiently interpretable so as to provide a reason for any adverse actions (rejections).  The analytic goal is to determine who should be approved for a home equity loan.The home equity loan approval model computes the probability of a given loan applicant to default on loan repayment.    A threshold is selected such that all applicants whose probability of default is in excess of the threshold are recommended for rejection. Model assessment will allow us to select the best of the alternative modelsIn order to develop the best model, performed the following three tasks:  1.Data exploration: •Performed data explorationon this data set to see if any part of data needs to be removed, imputed,transformed or massaged. Payed special attention to missing data, range of data, max, min, distribution, skewness and outliers.  2.Descriptive analytics:•Performed descriptive analytics on the data and found among those who defaulted,Debt-to-income ratio is lower for people who requested the loan for debt consolidation than home improvement.    3.Predictive analytics:•Partitioned the data into three parts of 60, 40% Training, and validation, respectively. Developed 3 predictive models using decision tree predictive method. Select the best treeand interpret your findings. The tree which has lowest misclassification rate among the trees is selected as the best model. In this case the default tree is selected as the best model since it’s misclassification rate is lower than the other three trees.
